From: kayparker@mailite.com (=?utf-8?Q?Kay=20Parker=20=09=20?=)
Date: Wed, 18 Jan 2017 23:53:38 -0800
Subject: [TUHS] Oracle euthanizes Solaris 12, expunging it from roadmap
Message-ID: <1484812418.3800555.852554160.1638329B@webmail.messagingengine.com>

guess it is the beginning of the end of Solaris and the Sparc CPU:
'Rumors have been circulating since late last year that Oracle was
planning to kill development of the Solaris operating system, with major
layoffs coming to the operating system's development team. Others
speculated that future versions of the Unix platform Oracle acquired
with Sun Microsystems would be designed for the cloud and built for the
Intel platform only and that the SPARC processor line would meet its
demise. The good news, based on a recently released Oracle roadmap for
the SPARC platform, is that both Solaris and SPARC appear to have a
future.

The bad news is that the next major version of Solaris—Solaris 12— has
apparently been canceled, as it has disappeared from the roadmap.
Instead, it's been replaced with "Solaris 11.next"—and that version is
apparently the only update planned for the operating system through
2021.

With its on-premises software and hardware sales in decline, Oracle has
been undergoing a major reorganization over the past two years as it
attempts to pivot toward the cloud. Those changes led to a major speed
bump in the development cycle for Java Enterprise Edition, a slowdown
significant enough that it spurred something of a Java community revolt.
Oracle later announced a new roadmap for Java EE that recalibrated
expectations, focusing on cloud services features for the next version
of the software platform. '
http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/01/oracle-sort-of-confirms-demise-of-solaris-12-effort/

-- 
  Kay Parker       
  kayparker at mailite.com

-- 
http://www.fastmail.com - The way an email service should be


